fana abadi
majikan abdi
pemberatan abolisi
hadir absen
konkrit abstrak
rasional absurd
basi aktual
negatif afirmatif
meleset akurat
ringan akut
ahli amatir
normal anomali
protagonis antagonis
searah antagonis
simpati antipati
tesis antitesis
aktif apatis
zenit apex
esensial arbitrer
antartika artika
hedonisme asketisme
duplikat asli
palsu asli
palsu autentik
semacam beraneka
sesuai berbeda
gagal berhasil
rapat berongga
netral berpihak
monoton berselang-seling
kering bersimbah
konstan berubah
tunggal bhineka
marjinal bonafid
kerdil bongsor
hemat boros
nabati botani
dungu brilian
normal cacat
lambat cepat
induksi deduksi
pemupukan defertilisasi
kemajuan degenerasi
nyata delusi
independen dependen
resesi depresi
konstruktif destruktif
monolog dialog
ekuivalensi diferensiasi
statis dinamis
dogma diskursus
densiti distansi
padu dualisme
brilian dungu
gradul eklektik
impresi ekspresi
pasif ekspresif
internal eksternal
internal ekstrinsik
kaku elastis
canggih elusif
maestro epigon
terbuka esoteris
kondensasi evaporasi
revolusi evolusi
fiksi fakta
maskulin feminim
nonfiksi fiksi
fakta fiktif
mental fisik
gradual frontal
berhasil gagal
berani gamang
genap gasal
sumbang harmoni
baka hayati
mati hayati
boros hemat
kotor higienis
monistik holistik
kompromi idealisme
sah illegal
emigrasi imigrasi
ekspresi impresi
kolektif individual
reduksi induksi
superior inferior
deflasi inflasi
nyenyak insomnia
eksternal internal
proyeksi introyeksi
baik jahat
tanya jawab
buas jinak
kecil jumbo
seragam kaleidoskop
tandang kandang
bodoh kapabel
sosialisme kapitalisme
mempan kebal
besar kecil
baru kedaluwarsa
fana kekal
bebas kekang
pendukung kendala
adhesi kohesi
individual kolektif
kaku kompatibel
penghambat konduktor
uraian konklusi
elusif konklusif
acuh konrol
ekploitasi konservasi
berubah-ubah konstan
penghasil konsumen
hutang kontan
terputus kontiniu
setuju kontra
konvergensi kontradiksi
cekung konveks
pemasukan kredit
stabil krisis
sepele krusial
kuantitas kualitas
tambun kurus
stabil labil
cepat lambat
macet lancar
asli lancung
bumi langit
bubut las
pembatasan liberal
fundamentalisme liberalisme
sempit longgar
ingat lupa
jujur makar
setia makar
bergantung mandiri
dependen mandiri
senang marah
nyata maya
senang merana
vasal merdeka
nyata metafisika
amburadul metodis
mayor minor
realis mistis
fakta mitos
keajegan mobilitas
kuno modern
tradisional modernisasi
poligami monogami
berubah-ubah monoton
amoral moral
kosong nadir
konfirmasi negasi
takut nekat
berpihak netral
dunia nirwana
mutlak nisbi
menetap nomadik
bertahan ofensif
eksponen oponen
pendengar orator
plagiat orisinil
demokratis otokratis
demokrasi otoriter
pertidaksamaan padanan
awam pakar
seragam pancarona
bodoh pandai
bodoh pintar
pra pasca
berongga pejal
pengkhianat pejuang
destruktif pembangun
penakut pemberani
eliminasi penambahan
remeh penting
pewaris perintis
lemah perkasa
serangan pertahanan
tunggal plural
minus plus
rukun polemik
monogami poliandri
negatif positif
ragu-ragu positif
penutup preambul
akhiran prefiks
kontra pro
amatir professional
regresif progresif
epilog prolog
biasa prominen
norak proporsional
reaksi proposisi
kerdil raksasa
sepi ramai
pasti ramalan
irrasional rasional
empirisme rasionalisme
progresif regresif
penting remeh
penambahan remisi
evolusi revolusi
grosir ritel
persesuaian rivalitas
jarang rutin
mutakhir salaf
random sampling
canggih sederhana
kemarin sekarang
keagamaan sekuler
spiritualisme sekulerisme
merana senang
junior senior
penyatuan separasi
berbeda sesuai
sumbang setem
mendidih siau
antipati simpati
dualistik sinergi
sumbang sinkron
militer sipil
yakin skeptis
individual soliter
jarang sporadis
labil stabil
dinamis statis
tandus subur
tepat sumbang
lancang takzim
kurus tambun
tangis tawa
tenggelam terapung
kacau teratur
terbenam terkatung
kontinu terputus
asli tetiron
rendah tinggi
imanesi transedensi
heterogen tunggal
parsial universal
merdeka vassal
skalar vektor
horisontal vertikal
baik virulen
pendiam vokal
muda wreda
