abadi fana
abdi majikan
abolisi pemberatan
absen hadir
abstrak konkrit
absurd rasional
aktual basi
afirmatif negatif
akurat meleset
akut ringan
amatir ahli
anomali normal
antagonis protagonis
antagonis searah
antipati simpati
antitesis tesis
apatis aktif
apex zenit
arbitrer esensial
artika antartika
asketisme hedonisme
asli duplikat
asli palsu
autentik palsu
beraneka semacam
berbeda sesuai
berhasil gagal
berongga rapat
berpihak netral
berselang-seling monoton
bersimbah kering
berubah konstan
bhineka tunggal
bonafid marjinal
bongsor kerdil
boros hemat
botani nabati
brilian dungu
cacat normal
cepat lambat
deduksi induksi
defertilisasi pemupukan
degenerasi kemajuan
delusi nyata
dependen independen
depresi resesi
destruktif konstruktif
dialog monolog
diferensiasi ekuivalensi
dinamis statis
diskursus dogma
distansi densiti
dualisme padu
dungu brilian
eklektik gradul
ekspresi impresi
ekspresif pasif
eksternal internal
ekstrinsik internal
elastis kaku
elusif canggih
epigon maestro
esoteris terbuka
evaporasi kondensasi
evolusi revolusi
fakta fiksi
feminim maskulin
fiksi nonfiksi
fiktif fakta
fisik mental
frontal gradual
gagal berhasil
gamang berani
gasal genap
harmoni sumbang
hayati baka
hayati mati
hemat boros
higienis kotor
holistik monistik
idealisme kompromi
illegal sah
imigrasi emigrasi
impresi ekspresi
individual kolektif
induksi reduksi
inferior superior
inflasi deflasi
insomnia nyenyak
internal eksternal
introyeksi proyeksi
jahat baik
jawab tanya
jinak buas
jumbo kecil
kaleidoskop seragam
kandang tandang
kapabel bodoh
kapitalisme sosialisme
kebal mempan
kecil besar
kedaluwarsa baru
kekal fana
kekang bebas
kendala pendukung
kohesi adhesi
kolektif individual
kompatibel kaku
konduktor penghambat
konklusi uraian
konklusif elusif
konrol acuh
konservasi ekploitasi
konstan berubah-ubah
konsumen penghasil
kontan hutang
kontiniu terputus
kontra setuju
kontradiksi konvergensi
konveks cekung
kredit pemasukan
krisis stabil
krusial sepele
kualitas kuantitas
kurus tambun
labil stabil
lambat cepat
lancar macet
lancung asli
langit bumi
las bubut
liberal pembatasan
liberalisme fundamentalisme
longgar sempit
makar jujur
makar setia
mandiri bergantung
mandiri dependen
marah senang
maya nyata
merana senang
merdeka vasal
metafisika nyata
metodis amburadul
minor mayor
mistis realis
mitos fakta
mobilitas keajegan
modern kuno
modernisasi tradisional
monogami poligami
monoton berubah-ubah
moral amoral
nadir kosong
negasi konfirmasi
nekat takut
netral berpihak
nirwana dunia
nisbi mutlak
nomadik menetap
ofensif bertahan
oponen eksponen
orator pendengar
orisinil plagiat
otokratis demokratis
otoriter demokrasi
padanan pertidaksamaan
pakar awam
pancarona seragam
pandai bodoh
pintar bodoh
pasca pra
pejal berongga
pejuang pengkhianat
pembangun destruktif
pemberani penakut
penambahan eliminasi
penting remeh
perintis pewaris
perkasa lemah
pertahanan serangan
plural tunggal
plus minus
polemik rukun
poliandri monogami
positif negatif
positif ragu-ragu
preambul penutup
prefiks akhiran
pro kontra
professional amatir
progresif regresif
prolog epilog
prominen biasa
proporsional norak
proposisi reaksi
raksasa kerdil
ramai sepi
ramalan pasti
rasional irrasional
rasionalisme empirisme
regresif progresif
remeh penting
remisi penambahan
revolusi evolusi
ritel grosir
rivalitas persesuaian
rutin jarang
salaf mutakhir
sampling random
sederhana canggih
sekarang kemarin
sekuler keagamaan
sekulerisme spiritualisme
senang merana
senior junior
separasi penyatuan
sesuai berbeda
setem sumbang
siau mendidih
simpati antipati
sinergi dualistik
sinkron sumbang
sipil militer
skeptis yakin
soliter individual
sporadis jarang
stabil labil
statis dinamis
subur tandus
sumbang tepat
takzim lancang
tambun kurus
tawa tangis
terapung tenggelam
teratur kacau
terkatung terbenam
terputus kontinu
tetiron asli
tinggi rendah
transedensi imanesi
tunggal heterogen
universal parsial
vassal merdeka
vektor skalar
vertikal horisontal
virulen baik
vokal pendiam
wreda muda